---
title: Building Custom Firmware
---

## Rationale

Prebuilt targets may not include the features you wish to use. If a target already exists, it is relatively simple to build your own custom firmware. 

This guide provides a high level overview. It is **not** a detailed development guide.

## Prerequisite

You need a working development environment. There is [developer / build environment documentation](https://github.com/iNavFlight/inav/tree/master/docs/development) for the major platforms (Linux, MacOS, Windows). 

## Target Specific Files

### Overview

For basic configuration changes, the files are found under `src/main/targets/NAME`. At the top level this includes a separate directory for each target.

This article considers a prototype flight controller `QUARKVISION` that was never put into production.

```
$ cd inav/src/main/target
$ ls QUARKVISION
CMakeFiles           CMakeLists.txt  README.md  target.h
cmake_install.cmake  config.c        target.c
```

The `CMakefles` directory and `cmake_install.cmake` are generated by the build system; the other files are:
 
* `CMakeLists.txt` : Mandatory, defines the target name and variants
* `README.md` : Optional, information about the target
* `target.h` : Mandatory, defines capabilities and definitions (e.g. sensors, pin definitions)
* `target.c` : Mandatory, defines timers and usage (e.g. for motors and servos)
* `config.c` : Mandatory, defines configuration defaults (RX type etc).  

### `CMakeLists.txt` 

The `QUARKVISION` example contains a single line:

```
target_stm32f405xg(QUARKVISION HSE_MHZ 16 SKIP_RELEASES)
```
Here is the definition for:
* The processor class `stm32f405xg`
* The target name `QUARKVISION`
* Additional parameters `HSE_MHZ 16` (an optional parameter defining a non-default high-speed external (HSE) oscillator clock required by this board) and `SKIP_RELEASES` as this is not an official target.

If we had other variants, for example a V2 variant with different sensors, we could add another line, for example:

```
target_stm32f405xg(QUARKVISION_V2 HSE_MHZ 16 SKIP_RELEASES)
```

We can then reference the `QUARKVISION_V2` in `target.c` or `target.h` to handle the different capabilities of each variation.

See [the developer documentation](https://github.com/iNavFlight/inav/blob/master/docs/development/Cmake%20usage.md) for more information, including a more detailed `CMakeLists.txt` and a list of processor options.

## `target.h` 

`target.h` contains hardware definitions, a fragment is below:

```
#pragma once

#define TARGET_BOARD_IDENTIFIER "QRKV"
#define USBD_PRODUCT_STRING "QuarkVision"

...

#define BEEPER                  PC15
#define BEEPER_INVERTED
#define USE_UART_INVERTER
#define INVERTER_PIN_UART2         PB2 // PB2 used as inverter select GPIO
#define INVERTER_PIN_UART2_RX      PB2 // PB2 used as inverter select GPIO

#define MPU6000_CS_PIN          PC1
#define MPU6000_SPI_BUS                 BUS_SPI2

#define USE_IMU_MPU6000
#define IMU_MPU6000_ALIGN       CW270_DEG

// MPU6000 interrupts
#define USE_EXTI
#define GYRO_INT_EXTI            PC0
#define USE_MPU_DATA_READY_SIGNAL

//*************** MAG *****************************

#define USE_MAG
#define MAG_I2C_BUS             BUS_I2C3
#define USE_MAG_HMC5883
#define USE_MAG_MAG3110
#define USE_MAG_QMC5883
#define USE_MAG_AK8963
#define USE_MAG_AK8975
...
```

Of note:

* `TARGET_BOARD_IDENTIFIER` this should be unique in the first **4 bytes**. If the mythical `QUARKVISION_V2` existed, it would need a separate ID. For example:

```
#if defined(QUARKVISION_V2)
# define TARGET_BOARD_IDENTIFIER "QVV2"
#else
# define TARGET_BOARD_IDENTIFIER "QRKV"
#endif
```

This pattern is required for each variation and the features affected by the variation.

The file fragment then defines hardware options:
* Pins, Busses
* Sensors, for example the `#define USE_MAG` stanza which defines the `MAG_I2C_BUS` I2C bus for the compass, and the different compass types supported on this board. 

There will similar stanzas for all the available sensor components.

### `target.c`

`target.c` defines the timer and channel usage. The association between timers and channels is provided by the vendor MCU documentation. This defines an array of `timerHardware_t`, in turn defined by the `DEF_TIM` (define timer) macro.

```
...
timerHardware_t timerHardware[] = {
    DEF_TIM(TIM1, CH3, PA10, TIM_USE_PPM, 0, 0), // S1_IN_PPM A01
    DEF_TIM(TIM8, CH2, PC7, TIM_USE_ANY, 0, 0), // SSERIAL1 RX c07
    DEF_TIM(TIM8, CH1, PC6, TIM_USE_ANY, 0, 0), // SSERIAL1 TX
    DEF_TIM(TIM2, CH1, PA15, 0, 0, 0), // LED A15
    DEF_TIM(TIM3, CH3, PB0, TIM_USE_OUTPUT_AUTO, 0, 0),   // S1_OUT
    DEF_TIM(TIM3, CH4, PB1, TIM_USE_OUTPUT_AUTO, 0, 0),   // S2_OUT
    DEF_TIM(TIM12, CH1, PB14, TIM_USE_OUTPUT_AUTO, 0, 0), // S3_OUT
    DEF_TIM(TIM12, CH2, PB15, TIM_USE_OUTPUT_AUTO, 0, 0), // S4_OUT
    DEF_TIM(TIM11, CH1, PB9, TIM_USE_OUTPUT_AUTO, 0, 0),  // S5_OUT
    DEF_TIM(TIM10, CH1, PB8, TIM_USE_OUTPUT_AUTO, 0, 0),  // S6_OUT
    DEF_TIM(TIM3, CH2, PB5, TIM_USE_OUTPUT_AUTO, 0, 0),   // S7_OUT
    DEF_TIM(TIM3, CH1, PB4, TIM_USE_OUTPUT_AUTO, 0, 0),   // S8_OUT
    DEF_TIM(TIM8, CH3, PC8, TIM_USE_OUTPUT_AUTO, 0, 0),   // S9_OUT
    DEF_TIM(TIM2, CH2, PB3, TIM_USE_OUTPUT_AUTO, 0, 0),   // S10_OUT
};
...
```

The parameters are:

* `TIMn`: The timer
* `CHn` : The channel
* `Pxy` : The hardware (MCU) pin
* The usage function(s) available in this pin. Note that each timer is assigned a rate defined by function, so it is inadvisable to have both `MOTOR` and `SERVO` definition on the same timer. `TIM_USE_OUTPUT_AUTO` will let INAV assign the output to either `MOTOR` or `SERVO` automatically.
* The final two parameters (`flags`, `dmavar` are hardware specific / required for DMA (e.g. DSHOT), which is turn is defined by `#define USE_DSHOT` in `target.h`. See vendor's technical definitions perhaps compared to comparable targets. The example target here does not define `USE_DSHOT` and the values are 0. These parameters provide a DMA descriptor table compatible with Betaflight.

### Adding a new source file

If a new source file is added **outside of the `target/NAME` directory**, it must be added to the top level `src/main/CMakeLists.txt`.

## Further reading

* Read the fine source, base your target / changes on a **supported target** with similar characteristics
* Read the [developer / build environment documentation](https://github.com/iNavFlight/inav/tree/master/docs/development)


## Other recommendations

### Use a separate branch

```
$ git checkout -b my_super_special_branch
```

This will isolate your work from the base repo and facilitate making a pull request if you decide to contribute your changes back to the project.

## Building

Build the target.

```
$ make -j  $(nproc) QUARKVISION
## or (using ninja as the build manager)
$ ninja QUARKVISION
...
[365/366] Linking C executable bin/QUARKVISION.elf
Memory region         Used Size  Region Size  %age Used
           FLASH:      519160 B       896 KB     56.58%
    FLASH_CONFIG:          0 GB       128 KB      0.00%
             RAM:       76476 B       128 KB     58.35%
             CCM:       13852 B        64 KB     21.14%
     BACKUP_SRAM:          0 GB         4 KB      0.00%
       MEMORY_B1:          0 GB         0 GB
[366/366] cd /home/jrh/Projects/fc/ina.../inav/build/inav_6.0.0_QUARKVISION.hex
```

### Fix any errors /  warnings

If you changes introduce compiler warnings, please fix them. Submissions (pull requests) with compiler errors / warnings will not be accepted. If your changes overflow the flash size, consider removing unwanted features in `target.h`. Your `target.h` can always `#undef` generic features from `src/main/target/common.h` (e.g. unwanted RX or telemetry options). 

### Commit your changes

You can now commit the changes to your branch, e.g. `git commit -a -m "my descriptive commit message"` ; otherwise if one wanted to update to the upstream the source tree (e.g.)

```
git pull
```

git will complain that there are uncommitted changes and won't perform the update. There are a number of solutions, some beyond the scope of this simple guide, however the easiest are:
https://github.com/iNavFlight/inav/blob/mosca-target-converter/src/utils/bf2inav.py
* Commit to your private branch as above ; or
* `$ git reset --hard` before pulling ; or
* Stash away the original files and restore them after pulling.

The developer documentation has more information on synchronising a custom branch with upstream Github.

### Other tools and resources

There is a [script in beta test](https://github.com/iNavFlight/inav/blob/mosca-target-converter/src/utils/bf2inav.py) that can help automate conversion of Betaflight targets to INAV. The developer, @mosca, will be grateful for any reports of success (or failure).

Paweł Spychalski has also made YouTube videos on the subject.